.\" Header used on every estate page.
.TH ESTate 1 "October 1999" ESTate "EST analysis tools, etc"
.SH NAME
.\"
fasta2usage \- Calculate word usage counts from FASTA format sequences.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fasta2usage
[ -hvc ] [ -dwjfa ] <fasta format sequences>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR fasta2usage
counts the word usage within a FASTA format input file.
The output is written to
.IR stdout .

Different algorithms are used depending on the word length
and alphabet specified: a simple table lookup approach
is used for wordlengths of 1 or 2,
a VFSM (
.IR V irtual
.IR F inite
.IR S tate
.IR M achine
) for longer wordlengths, enabling word counting in
linear time.

If the word space is too large
to be represented in memory, then a slower algorithm
is used, using an adaptive trie base dictionary.
However, this algorithm
is quite memory efficient, and will allow counting of
frequencies of very long words from sets of large input
sequences.
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-d \--database " sequence-database
Specify the FASTA format input sequence database.
This can be a protein or nucleotide database containing
single or multiple sequences.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-w \--wordlen " wordlength
Set the length of words to be counted.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-j \--jump " jumplength
Set the length to jump between consecutive words.  This will
be
.BR 1
when calculating composition, and
.BR 3
when calculating codon usage.
See examples below for more information.
.\"
.TP
.B "\-f \--forcedict"
Force the use of of the trie based dictionary for word counting.
This should be specified to make the program more conservative
on memory than time.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-a \--alphabet " alphabet
This specifies the string characters of the alphabet to count.
Any words containing other characters are ignored.  This will
normally be a string such as
.IR "'ACGT'" ,
but if the string,
.IR "'protein'"
is used, it will be interpreted as an alias for the string,
.IR "'ARNDCQEGHILKMFPSTWYV'" .
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
.B "fasta2usage \-d sp.fasta -a protein > sp.composition"
.RS
Calculate the composition in
.IR sp.fasta .
.RE
.\"
.TP
.B "fasta2usage -w 6 -j 3 \-d coding.fasta > coding.wordcount"
Calculate the hexamer usage from the file
.IR coding.fasta .
The output file,
.IR coding.wordcount
can be used as input for
.BR "calcwordprob (1)".
.\" Misc information appended to the end of Every ESTate man page.
.\"
.RE
.SH VERSION
This documentation accompanies version 0.5.0 of the ESTate package.
.SH AUTHOR
Guy St.C. Slater.  <gslater@hgmp.mrc.ac.uk>
.SH AVAILABILITY
This source code for the ESTate package will be made
available under the terms of the GNU public licence.  Please
see the file COPYING which was distrubuted with this package,
or http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html for details.

Please see http://www.hgmp.mrc.ac.uk/~gslater/ESTate/
for more information about the ESTate package.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR calcwordprob (1),
.BR estcluster (1),
.BR ESTate (7),
.BR fasta2usage (1),
.BR flat2coding (1),
.BR framefinder (1),
.BR precluster (1),
.BR vpbuild (1)
.BR vpsearch (1)
