.\" Header used on every estate page.
.TH ESTate 1 "October 1999" ESTate "EST analysis tools, etc"
.SH NAME
.\"
flat2coding \- Extract coding sequences from a EMBL/GenBank database.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flat2coding
[ -hvc ] [ -do ] <EMBL/GenBank flat file>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR flat2coding
parses the annotations and feature table from a EMBL or GenBank
format sequence database, to reconstruct coding sequences.
The coding sequences are written to
.I stdout
in FASTA format.

Sequences annotated as being hypothetical, organelle derived,
partial, potential, or putative are discarded.  Any sequences
containing ambiguity codes or not starting with an initiation
codon and ending with an in-frame stop codon are considered
to be poor quality, and are also discarded.

.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-d \--database " sequence-database
Specify the EMBL or GenBank format sequence database.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-o \--organism " organism-name
Name of the organism
.I exactly
as it appears in the database on the OS line in EMBL
annotation or the ORGANISM line in GenBank annotations.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
.B "flat2coding \-o 'Homo sapiens (human)' \-d embl_hum.dat "
.B "> coding.fasta"
.RS
Extract coding sequences from
.IR embl_hum ,
and writes them to
.IR coding.fasta .
This is often used prior to calculation
codon or hexamer frequency statistics, with
.BR "fasta2usage(1)" .
.RE
.\"
.\" Misc information appended to the end of Every ESTate man page.
.\"
.RE
.SH VERSION
This documentation accompanies version 0.5.0 of the ESTate package.
.SH AUTHOR
Guy St.C. Slater.  <gslater@hgmp.mrc.ac.uk>
.SH AVAILABILITY
This source code for the ESTate package will be made
available under the terms of the GNU public licence.  Please
see the file COPYING which was distrubuted with this package,
or http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html for details.

Please see http://www.hgmp.mrc.ac.uk/~gslater/ESTate/
for more information about the ESTate package.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR calcwordprob (1),
.BR estcluster (1),
.BR ESTate (7),
.BR fasta2usage (1),
.BR flat2coding (1),
.BR framefinder (1),
.BR precluster (1),
.BR vpbuild (1)
.BR vpsearch (1)
