.\" Header used on every estate page.
.TH ESTate 1 "October 1999" ESTate "EST analysis tools, etc"
.SH NAME
.\"
framefinder \- error tolerant DNA sequence framefinding
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B framefinder
[ -hvc ] [ -wdtrsFIDO ] <fasta format DNA sequences>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR framefinder
is a error-tolerant framefinding program.
Log odds hexamer frequency statistics and multiple dynamic
programming frameshift models are used to predict the extend
and reading frame of coding sequence from EST derived consensus
sequences.  Error tolerance is achieved by the use of an ambiguity
tolerant translation model and context dependent frameshift
penalties.

.PP
Two models are currently used within framefinder:
.PP
.RS
.IR "A local model",
in which an optimally scoring local path is found through the
reading frames of the sequences.
.RE

.RS
.IR "A strict model",
which is similar to the local model, but a reading frame can
only be opened when an open codon is encountered, and must be closed
when an in-frame stop codon if encountered
(or a frameshift must be incurred to avoid it).
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-w \--wordprob " wordprob-file
Specify the word probability file.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-d \--database " sequence-database
Specify the FASTA format input file, which may contain
single or multiple sequences.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-t \--thinkaloud " boolean
Show information related to probabilities,
scores, translation and frame selection.
This option is for debugging only.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-r \--tryrevcomp " boolean
Specify whether the reverse complement
of the sequence is searched for candidate
translations in addition to the forward sequence.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-t \--trystrictlocal " boolean
Specify whether a strict local model should be used to
search the sequence for translations before the more relaxed
local model.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-F \--fspen " frameshift-penalty
Specify the frameshift penalty which should be used.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-I \--inspen " insertion-penalty
Specify the insertion penalty which should be used.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-D \--delpen " delpen-penalty
Specify the deletion penalty which should be used.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-O \--openbonus" frame-open-bonus
In the strict local model, the frame open bonus is added to
the score when a candidate reading frame is opened.  This
is to compensate for that fact that corresponding codons
or hexamers occur infrequently in coding sequences as a whole
relative to the frequency of their occurence at frame openings.

Additionally, this bonus facilitates selection of the
strict model over the local model when similar scores are
generated, allowing for more accurate prediction of the
reading frame ends.

.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
.B "framefinder -w etc/embl59.wordprob calm.dna.fasta > calm.predicted_protein.fasta"
.RS
This will use the default parameters, and the embl59 word probablity
file distributed with the packages to predict the translation from
the calm.dna.fasta sequence file.
.RE
.\"
.\" Misc information appended to the end of Every ESTate man page.
.\"
.RE
.SH VERSION
This documentation accompanies version 0.5.0 of the ESTate package.
.SH AUTHOR
Guy St.C. Slater.  <gslater@hgmp.mrc.ac.uk>
.SH AVAILABILITY
This source code for the ESTate package will be made
available under the terms of the GNU public licence.  Please
see the file COPYING which was distrubuted with this package,
or http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html for details.

Please see http://www.hgmp.mrc.ac.uk/~gslater/ESTate/
for more information about the ESTate package.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR calcwordprob (1),
.BR estcluster (1),
.BR ESTate (7),
.BR fasta2usage (1),
.BR flat2coding (1),
.BR framefinder (1),
.BR precluster (1),
.BR vpbuild (1)
.BR vpsearch (1)
