.\" Header used on every estate page.
.TH ESTate 1 "October 1999" ESTate "EST analysis tools, etc"
.SH NAME
.\"
precluster \- word scoring step prior to EST clustering.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B precluster
[ -hvc ] [ -VdwmARr ] <fasta database path> <allvsall results path>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR precluster
employs VFSMs (
.IR V irtual
.IR F inite
.IR S tate
.IR M achines
) and an efficient word matching algorithm
to enable all-against-all matching in of a group of sequences
in subquadratic time.

The scores generated are simply the number of matching words
between sequences.  The results (which may be large)
are written out in a compressed binary format,
and can later be used by for EST clustering by
the program
.B estcluster (1)

.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-V \--vfsm " boolean
The VFSM optimisation is used as a default.  This option,
allows this to be turned off, and a quadratic time method
which matches words with Aho and Corasick type FSMs will be
used instead.  This will be
.I much much
slower, (this can take days, instead of minutes).

The VFSM optimisation should only be turned off when using a
prohibitively large word length, or when demonstration
of identical results from both methods is required.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-d \--database " sequence-database
Specify the FASTA format input file.  It is expected that
low complexity and highly repetitive sequences will have been masked,
as this will slow down and reduce the quality of the clustering.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-w \--wordlen " word-length
The length of words searched for between sequences.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-m \--wordmin " minimum-word-count
This option specifies the minimum number of matching words
required between two sequences before a matching score is reported.
This will both reduce the size of the results files, and speed
up the execution.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-A \--allvsall " allvsall-results-path
This allows for the path to be specified for results of matching
words between sequences in the same orientation.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-R \--allvsallrc " revcomp-results-path
This allows for the path to be specified for results of matching
words sequences where one of which is in the reverse complement.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-r \--revcomp " boolean
Specify whether word matches should be searched for in the
reverse complement.  The default is to TRUE; this option is
only left in for analysis and debugging.
.\"

.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
.B "precluster -d lib01.fasta -A lib01.avafw -R lib01.avarc"
.RS
This will run precluster using the defaults, using the sequences
in lib01.fasta as input.  Results will be written to lib01.avafw
and lib01.avarc.
.RE
.\"
.\" Misc information appended to the end of Every ESTate man page.
.\"
.RE
.SH VERSION
This documentation accompanies version 0.5.0 of the ESTate package.
.SH AUTHOR
Guy St.C. Slater.  <gslater@hgmp.mrc.ac.uk>
.SH AVAILABILITY
This source code for the ESTate package will be made
available under the terms of the GNU public licence.  Please
see the file COPYING which was distrubuted with this package,
or http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html for details.

Please see http://www.hgmp.mrc.ac.uk/~gslater/ESTate/
for more information about the ESTate package.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR calcwordprob (1),
.BR estcluster (1),
.BR ESTate (7),
.BR fasta2usage (1),
.BR flat2coding (1),
.BR framefinder (1),
.BR precluster (1),
.BR vpbuild (1)
.BR vpsearch (1)
