.\" Header used on every estate page.
.TH ESTate 1 "October 1999" ESTate "EST analysis tools, etc"
.SH NAME
.\"
vpbuild \- build vptree for sublinear time searching
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B vpbuild
[ -hvc ] [ -dimw ]
<fasta format DNA sequences> <output path for index> <metric name>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR vpbuild
builds a vantage-point tree for sublinear time database
searching with
.B vpsearch (1)

See the man page for
.B vpsearch (1)
for more information.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-d \--database " sequence-database
Specify the FASTA format input file.
This may contain either protein of DNA sequences.
An absolute path must be supplied.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-i \--index " index-path
Specify path into which the index should
be written.  A directory is created, into which
the vantage point tree is written, with a link
to the original sequence data, and a file
containing information about the metric used.
If the path already exists, '_update' is appended
to the path before the directory is written.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-m \--metric " metric
specify the metric to use for pairwise
comparison.  This can either be the
.B edit
distance between
the sequences, or a
.B word
based metric.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-w \--wordlen " word-length
If the word-based metric is used, this option can
be used to specify the word length which will be used.
.\"
.SH EXAMPLES
.\"
.B "vpbuild -d test.fasta -i test.index -m edit"
.RS
This will run vpbuild on test.fasta, generating a vptree in
the directory test.index, using edit distance as the comparison
metric.
.RE
.\"
.\" Misc information appended to the end of Every ESTate man page.
.\"
.RE
.SH VERSION
This documentation accompanies version 0.5.0 of the ESTate package.
.SH AUTHOR
Guy St.C. Slater.  <gslater@hgmp.mrc.ac.uk>
.SH AVAILABILITY
This source code for the ESTate package will be made
available under the terms of the GNU public licence.  Please
see the file COPYING which was distrubuted with this package,
or http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html for details.

Please see http://www.hgmp.mrc.ac.uk/~gslater/ESTate/
for more information about the ESTate package.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR calcwordprob (1),
.BR estcluster (1),
.BR ESTate (7),
.BR fasta2usage (1),
.BR flat2coding (1),
.BR framefinder (1),
.BR precluster (1),
.BR vpbuild (1)
.BR vpsearch (1)
