.\" Header used on every estate page.
.TH ESTate 1 "October 1999" ESTate "EST analysis tools, etc"
.SH NAME
.\"
ESTate \- Expressed Sequence Tag Analysis Tools, etc.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR ESTate
is a set of tools for
.IR E xpressed
.IR S equence
.IR T ag
.IR A nalysis
.IR e tc.
Designed to perform a number of tasks required in the analysis
of ESTs, such as sequence comparison, database searching,
clustering, and translation.  For information about specific tools,
see their individual man pages.
.SH OPTIONS
Options which man be used with all tools are described here,
other options are described in the man pages for the tools which
use them.
.\"
.TP
.B "\-h \--help"
Display information on the available command line options
for the tool being used.  This option will show a name
which may be used to set a default for this parameter either
as an environment variable, or in the configuration file described
below.

It will also the value which is currently being used for
this value, whether it has been specified on the command line,
as an environment variable, in the configuration file, or is
just the hard coded default.
.\"
.TP
.B "\-v \--version"
Print the version number of the ESTate release being used,
and exit.
.\"
.TP
.BI "\-c \--config " config-file
Specify a directory containing the config file,
.IR .ESTaterc

If this is not specified, the program will look in the
the directory specified by $ESTATECONFIGDIR,
the current directory, then $HOME, then the directory containing
the executable, and finally in ${ESTate}/etc.  If a config
file is not found, a warning message is printed.
.\"
.SH FILES
.I .ESTaterc
.RS
The configuration file described above.  You should receive
an example configuration file with this package.
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.I $ESTATECONFIGDIR
.RS
When set, all programs will look for the
.I .ESTate.rc
file in the directory specified by this environment variable.
.RE
.SH BUGS
There are bound to be some (after all, I'm a biochemist,
not a computer scientist by training ;)
Anyway, please let me know when you find bugs.
.\" Misc information appended to the end of Every ESTate man page.
.\"
.RE
.SH VERSION
This documentation accompanies version 0.5.0 of the ESTate package.
.SH AUTHOR
Guy St.C. Slater.  <gslater@hgmp.mrc.ac.uk>
.SH AVAILABILITY
This source code for the ESTate package will be made
available under the terms of the GNU public licence.  Please
see the file COPYING which was distrubuted with this package,
or http://www.fsf.org/copyleft/gpl.html for details.

Please see http://www.hgmp.mrc.ac.uk/~gslater/ESTate/
for more information about the ESTate package.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR calcwordprob (1),
.BR estcluster (1),
.BR ESTate (7),
.BR fasta2usage (1),
.BR flat2coding (1),
.BR framefinder (1),
.BR precluster (1),
.BR vpbuild (1)
.BR vpsearch (1)
